Mechanics for SlashIT, more detailed
Written: October 9, 2009
Modified: October 11, 2009 -- incorporated decisions made by the /IT group.


elimination round: (1.5 hours)
The elimination round will be multiple choice questions for individuals
The score will be calculated by adding the score of individuals that make
up each pair, and dividing it by two (basically getting an average of their score)
The round will last an hour and a half, and the contestants may be able to go back to previous
questions. Nothing is final until they submit their answers, and the score is judged.
The contest itself only lasts 1 hour and 15 minutes, with the last 15 minutes being time that 
has a penalty on one's score (a deduction of 2 points per minute would suffice).

semi-final round: (1.5 hours)
The semi-final round is an addition to our contest. This time, answering the multiple
choice questions will be a team effort. There may be one or many correct answers
per question. If there are more than one correct answer, these must also be selected.
The round will last an hour and a half, and the contestants will be able to
go back to previous questions. Nothing is final until they submitted, and the score is
judged. The contest itself only lasts 1 hour and 15 minutes
with the last 15 minutes being extra time with penalty (a deduction of 4 points per minute would suffice).

The measurement of the points will be as follows:
If at least one wrong answer is checked, no points will be awarded to the team.
If there is no wrong answer checked, but the team missed some of the correct answers,
then only a fraction of the score (which is determined by dividing the highest score possible for that
question by the number of correct answers) will be given to that team.

final round: (1 hour)
The final round will be a much faster-paced contest, with much more difficult questions.
There will still be questions in which there will be multiple answers. There might also
be questions in which the answer is not present among the choices, and therefore
they must specify what the correct answer it (using a "none of the above" choice, with
a field provided to allow the contestants to specify the answers). There is no extra time
for this round, and those who have failed to submit will automatically be eliminated.
The contests will last for only 45 minutes, giving the remainder of the hour for the tie-breaker
round. (see the section below regarding tie breaker)
(As a consequence of not submitting anything for the final round, there is a possibility
that everyone could be eliminated.
I would be open to the possibility that no one wins the contest if they did not submit
anything at all. Therefore, there is a constraint that they must submit within 45 minutes.
This condition will only occur in such case that no one submits their answers at all. I believe
this is highly improbable since everyone wants to win in a contest.)
Unlike the previous two rounds, for the final round, each question will be given a certain
number of minutes to solve (this depends on the difficulty of a question). Therefore,
each team will have to solve only one problem at a time. They may submit early. But this
means that they may not change their answer once they have pressed "Submit." If they did not
press submit, and the time has run out, it would be considered an incorrect answer (not that
they did not submit anything, so there would be no points at all)

tie-breaker: (-- minutes)
The tie breaker is a sudden death contest. Each question has a time limit, in
which case they would not be allowed to go back to any one question (as there would
only be one question that would be specified for each case). This format is almost
identical to the final round. If the team fails
to answer the question, it would be considered as incorrect once the time is up.
the Tie-breaker questions would be really difficult questions, in which case it might
be easier to identify the champion. The tie-breaker round will only end once there is an
obvious winner (ie, no two scores are the same for the top 3) This means that if there
are three or more teams that have the same score, the tie-breaker round will have to keep
going on until there are top 3, different scores. But in such case that we do not have
any more tie-breakers (I would give 10 tie-breakers at the most, which is many already,
just to be sure), then we shall award those teams the same rank.

Special Cases:
*The penalty for disconnection has been removed. We have made this decision based on
the assumption that the network itself is reliable, so the source of disconnection
did not come from there. The only reason for disconnection would be an intentional
act of a member of the team. The positive penalty of deducting scores have been removed
because having to answer all the questions all over again with lost time is already
penalty in itself.